Conformance 2.0 Test Pack (#857)
finos/FDC3: toolbox/fdc3-conformance/FDC3-2.0-Conformance-Test-Cases.md

# FDC3 2.0 Conformance Test Cases

## 1. Basic Tests

_These are some basic sanity tests implemented in the FDC3 Conformance Framework.  It is expected that Desktop Agent testers will run these first before commencing the much more thorough tests in section 2 onwards._

- `2.0-BasicCL1`: You can call the `fdc3.addContextListener` with the `fdc3.contact` context type. The returned listener object has an `ubsubscribe` function.

> - `2.0-BasicCL2`: You can call the `fdc3addContextListener` with no context type. The returned listener object has an `ubsubscribe` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `2.0-BasicCL2`: You can call the `fdc3.addContextListener` with a `null` context type. The returned listener object has an `unsubscribe` function.
```

> - `2.0-BasicIL1`: You can call the `fdc3.addIntentListener` on the `DesktopAgent` for an intent, and get back a `Listener` object with `unsubscribe` method.

Reviewer: returns a Promise<Listener> in 2.0

- `2.0-BasicCH1`: A call to `fdc3.getCurrentChannel` on the `DesktopAgent` always returns a promise.

> - `2.0-BasicCH2`: A call to `fdc3.getCurrentChannel()` returns a promise resolving to _null_ if called prior to any `joinChannel`.

Reviewer: Needs correcting to 2.0 function name

> - `2.0-BasicGI1`: A call to `fdc3.getInfo()` returns an object with `fdc3Version` and `provider` properties.

Reviewer: Returns a Promise in 2.0

> - `2.0-BasicAC1`: A call to `fdc3.getOrCreateChannel(<name>)` will return an object matching the `Channel` interface, with properties of `id`, `type`, `broadcast`, `getCurrentContext` and `addContextListener`.

Reviewer: returns a  promise in both 1.2 and 2.0

> - `2.0-BasicUC1`: You can call the `fdc3.getSystemChannels()` function and receive a promise containing an array of more than 1 `Channel` objects, each with type and id set.

Reviewer: update to 2.0 function name

> - `2.0-BasicJC1`: You can call `fdc3.joinChannel`, passing in the `id` of one of the system channels.  `fdc3.getCurrentChannel` should then return that joined channel.

Reviewer: update to 2.0 function name.
async in both 1.2 and 2.0 so should be awaited

| A   |1.  addContextListener |Call `fdc3.addContextListener(null, handler)`<br>Check **promise** resolving a **listener**  object is returned<br>Check that there is an `unsubscribe` function on the **listener object**   |
| A   | 2. joinUserChannel        |`fdc3.getUserChannels()`<br>Check **user** channels are returned.<br>Call `fdc3.joinUserChannel()` on first **user** channel                                      |
| B   | 3. joinUserChannel        | `fdc3.getUserChannels()`<br>Check **user** channels are returned.<br>Call `fdc3.joinUserChannel()` on first **user** channel                                      |
| B   | 4. Broadcast          | `fdc3.broadcast(<some instrument>)` <br> **Check promise of `void` is returned**                                                                                                                         |
| A   |5.  Receive Context    | Instrument object matches the one broadcast in 2 above.                                                                                                    |

> - `2.0-BasicUsage1` Perform above test 

Reviewer: Please improve test naming

| A   | 1. addContextListener | Call `fdc3.addContextListener("fdc3.instrument", handler)`<br>Check **promise** resolving a **listener**  object is returned<br>Check that there is an `unsubscribe` function on the **listener object**  |
| A   | 2. joinUserChannel        |`fdc3.getUserChannels()`<br>Check **user** channels are returned.<br>Call `fdc3.joinUserChannel()` on first **user** channel                                      |
| B   | 3. joinUserChannel        | `fdc3.getUserChannels()`<br>Check **user** channels are returned.<br>Call `fdc3.joinUserChannel()` on first **user** channel                                      |
| B   | 4. Broadcast          | `fdc3.broadcast(<some instrument>)` <br> `fdc3.broadcast()` a contact context.   <br> **Check promise of `void` is returned in both cases**                 |
| A   | 5. Receive Context    | Instrument object matches the one broadcast in 2 above.<br>Check that the contact is not received.                                                                   |

- `2.0-FilteredUsage1` Perform above test 
- `2.0-FilteredUsage2` Perform steps in order: 2,1,3,4,5
- `2.0-FilteredUsage3` 3,4,1,2,5

> - `2.0-FilteredUsage4` 3,4,2,1,5

Reviewer: Please improve test naming

| B   | 4. Broadcast          | `fdc3.broadcast()` the instrument context. <br> `fdc3.broadcast()` a contact context.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| A   | 5. Receive Context    | Instrument object matches the one broadcast in 2 above.<br>Contact object matches the one broadcast in 2 above.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

 - `2.0-UCFilteredUsage5`: Perform above test
 - `2.0-UCFilteredUsage6`: Perform above test, except B will join a _different_ channel to A. Check that you _don't_ receive anything.
 - `2.0-UCFilteredUsageUnsubscribe`: Perform above test, except that after joining, **A** then `unsubscribe()`s from the channel using the `listener.unsubscribe` function. Check that **A** _doesn't_ receive anything.

>  - `2.0-UCFilteredUsageChange`: Perform above test, except that after joining, **A** changes channel with a further _different_ channel.  Check that **A** _doesn't_ receive anything.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - `2.0-UCFilteredUsageChange`: Perform above test, except that after joining, **A** changes channel to a _different_ channel via a further call to `fdc3.joinUserChannel`.  Check that **A** _doesn't_ receive anything.
```

>  - `2.0-UCFilteredUsageLeave`: Perform above test, except that after joining, **A** calls `fdc3.leaveChannel()` and doesn't receive anything.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - `2.0-UCFilteredUsageLeave`: Perform above test, except that after joining, **A** calls `fdc3.leaveCurrentChannel()` and doesn't receive anything.
```

- `2.0-AOpensBMultipleListen`:  Perform `AOpensBWithSpecificContext` but **B** should perform an additional `fdc3.addContextListener('fdc3.contact', handler)` prior to the existing `addContextListener` for `fdc3.instrument`.  The correct context listener should receive the context, and the promise completes successfully. 

### Specific Context

| App | Step            | Description                                                                                                                   |
|-----|-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| A   | Opening App     | Open method as in `AOpensBWithContext` but pass a context type that app B is NOT going to add a listener for (including NOT adding a listener for type `null`)                                                                |
| B   | Context not received | App B calls `fdc3.addContextListener(type, handler)` for the type's it is listening for but NOT for the type A is sending in this case. Confirm that NO context is received.                         |

> | A   | Promise         | Receives a rejection from the open promise with “App Timeout’ from <br>https://fdc3.finos.org/docs/api/ref/Errors#openerror |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| A   | Promise         | Receives a rejection from the open promise with `AppTimeout` from <br>https://fdc3.finos.org/docs/api/ref/Errors#openerror |
```

- `2.0-AOpensBWithWrongContext`: Perform above test

> - `2.0-AOpensBNoListen`: Skip `fdc3.addContextListener()` above (i.e. no listener was added). 

Reviewer: Define expected result (AppTimeout again)

- `2.0-RaiseIntentFailTargetedAppInstanceResolve2`: Perform above test, but:
  - Use `fdc3.raiseIntent(‘aTestingIntent’, testContextY, {appId: "<A's appId>", instanceId "NonExistentInstanceId"})`.  
  - You should receive a JavaScript Error with the message `ResolveError.TargetInstanceUnavailable `.

### Raise Intent Result (void result)

| App | Step           | Details                                                                                           |
|-----|----------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Test   | 1. Raise          | `fdc3.raiseIntent(‘sharedTestingIntent1’, testContextY)`<br>starts app B.                       |
| B       | 2. Receive Intent & Context | After starting up, B runs `fdc3.addIntentListener(‘sharedTestingIntent1’)` to register its listener.<br>It then receives `testContextY`, matching that sent by Test |
| Test   | 3. IntentResolution          | The `raiseIntent` call returns an `IntentResolution` Object with an `AppIdentifer` as the `source field` with App B's `appId` and `instanceId` set.                     |

> | Test   | 4. await results          | Test should `await resolution.getResult()` on the `IntentResolution` object returned in the previous step. A promise should be returned quickly.                        |
> | B       | 5. return void          | B should return void after a short delay (e.g. 5 seconds).                        |
> | Test   | 6. receive void result          | The promise received by Test from `resolution.getResult()` should resolve to void. Confirm that the promise could be retrieved before the handler function returned and that the result was received *after* the result was returned by B, not before. I.e. confirm that `resolution.getResult() does not block until the result is returned, but rather returns a promise that can be awaited.`                      |

Reviewer: This one's description needs improving (the await was making the test impossible to implement):

```suggestion
| Test   | 4. await results          | Test should `const resultPromise = resolution.getResult()` on the `IntentResolution` object returned in the previous step. A promise should be returned quickly.                        |
| B       | 5. return void          | B should return void after a short delay (e.g. 5 seconds).                        |
| Test   | 6. receive void result          | The promise received by Test from `resolution.getResult()` should eventually resolve to void and not be rejected. Additionally, confirm that the promise could be retrieved before the handler function returns. I.e. confirm that `resolution.getResult()` does not block until the result is returned, but rather returns a promise that can be awaited.`     |
```

- `2.0-RaiseIntentTargetedInstanceResolveFindInstances`: Repeat the above test, but:
  - Before the first step, use `let appIdentifier = await fdc3.open({appId: "<A's appId>"})` to start A.
  - Then use `const instances = await fdc3.findInstances({appId: "<A's appId>"})` to retrieve a list of instances of app A. Confirm that only one is present and retrieve its `AppIdentifier`, confirming that it contains an `instanceId` field that matches that returned by the `fdc3.open` call.
  - Then in the first step, use `fdc3.raiseIntent("aTestingIntent", testContextX, appIdentifier)` to target the running instance of app A. 
  - Confirm that the intent is delivered to the correct instance and that another instance is NOT started. Otherwise, as above.
- `2.0-RaiseIntentFailedResolve`: Perform above test, but:
  - Use `fdc3.raiseIntent("aTestingIntent", testContextY)`.  Note that no app supports this intent and context combination.**
  - You should receive a JavaScript Error with the message `ResolveError.NoAppsFound`.
- `2.0-RaiseIntentFailTargetedAppResolve1`: Perform above test, but:
  - Use `fdc3.raiseIntent("aTestingIntent", testContextY, {appId: "<A's appId>"})`.

>   - You should receive a JavaScript Error with the message `ResolveError.NoAppsFound`.

Reviewer: Wrong error specified
```suggestion
  - You should receive a JavaScript Error with the message `ResolveError.IntentDeliveryFailed`.
```
